Always one to make us look beyond the fabric and into deeper meaning behind what we wear, Vivienne Tam challenges us with her Fall/Winter 2013 collection not to revolt but rather to '[evolve] to transcend politics and ideologies and move toward a'common good'. 
It's a heavy subject to tackle with a clothing collection, 
but Vivienne Tam has a way of showing us that there are no limits in fashion and placing heavy context on a piece of clothing is okay. 
Her inspiration came from both the punk movement and Pop Art, which led to a collection that is not for the faint of heart. 
By viewing a single look, you know that Vivienne Tam means business, and encourages us to look beyond the clothing. 
But looking past the clothing is very difficult to do, as the garments- without all of the context- have such strength and dimension that they force you to take a closer look.
Vivienne Tam used black, white and red predominantly with pops of electric blue that has the suggestion of Mondrian's color palettes in his work 
from the 1930's and 40's.
She also used graffiti prints of Mao's writings and other mantras' on the sleeves, backs, skirts and bodices of many of her garments, 
taking her punk inspiration and running with it. 
With a collection that is revolutionary both in theme and in design, 
what one comes away with after viewing it is the idea that sometimes fashion is more than just what we wear. 
It represents who we are, where we're from and what we aspire for.
Theme: Vivienne Tam's F/W 2013 collection is about cultural dialoque, change and awakenings, and taking her Pop Art and punk movement inspirations,
she has created set of looks from jumpsuits to trench coats that is a symbol for the times and for our need as a people to move forward in hopes 
of being more unified; that we can transcend politics and ideologies.
Elements: Breaking down the looks, the elements that stood out the most were leather tartan panels, mesh mantra graffiti and wide sleeve cuffs.
Beauty: Pencil-thin cat eyes with a black lip and faux bangs made with twisted-up ponytails.
Stand-outs: Black utilitarian jumpsuit, turtleneck and military-inspired pants with mantra graffiti head to toe, and a black zipped trench coat with a plaid panel.
Glitz and rock-n-roll glam took over the Venexiana Spring/Summer 2012 show at Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week. 
With no shortage of sparkles, shimmery fabric, and embellishments, Venexiana designer Kati Stern showcased a selection 
of princess-like gowns with a twisted edge. Known for her rock-n-roll designs, this European designer's collection was a show-stopping sensation.
Kati Stern's choice of music during the runway was vibrant and punk, very suiting of her personality and designs. As royal-esque music played on for about 30 seconds without any sight of the models, you could feel the audience's tension and alertness towards the runway. 
Alas, when the models started appearing one by one, we finally realized how intense this show was going to be.
GLITZING GOLD
Nixing the overuse of prints, Kati Stern instead integrated a warm color palette into her collection ranging from reds to golds to light greens to achieve a spring-like effect. Shimmering stones were also incorporated to the straps of the dress, but we were surprised to discover how she was able to fit a thin shiny strap on many of her plunging open back gowns. Interesting take of architectural designing.
TEXTURIZED CONTRASTS
Sequins, shimmery fabric, and ruffles were the biggest key characteristics you'll find in the Venexiana Spring/Summer 2012 collection. Also very reminiscent of prom dresses, the collection tries to combine all these elements into each dress. You'll find that each dress will have a mixture of several fabrics combined to showcase an intricately structured dress.
GLAMOUR DETAIL
While we were taken aback by the slinky, sexy silhouettes, what was really mesmerizing were the poufy princess-like dresses and flowy fabrics. These two elements displayed Kati Stern's versatile design skills, an indication that she can do both ready-to-wear and punk couture. As the models put on these dresses, the dresses became activated, creating a ripple, wave-like effect following the model's every step.
Just like her collection, Kati Stern knows how to make grand apperances. The show ended with a bang as the funky designer walked all the way to the end of the runway and posed for the cameras! Just like her gowns, her runway shows always have a slight twist to them.
In the thick of my frugal college days, I was something of a thrift store queen, finding more awesome gear than could ever fit me or than I could ever need. In need of some cash, I set up a vintage store on eBay and listed my finds, and one of my first sales was a leather pencil skirt. I'll never forget how after the bidder received it, he sent me a message thanking me, telling me he couldn't wait for his wife to model it for him. There was an obligatory winking smiley face that came thereafter, and it seemed to resemble the face of a creepy man more than ever before. The acronym TMI comes to mind.
But perhaps I was just a little too fashion forward, and most people weren't embracing the leather skirt as a fashionable item yet, rather as part of the wardrobe arsenal of a rock n' roll diva, or a kinky wife. Thank god, times have changed. In the upcoming season and even in past fall seasons, leather has taken on a new spin and has been worn in ways other than the usual bomber. Does it sounds intimidating? It isn't.
Today, we're showing you five Chictopians who make the leather skirt look chic, in five completely different ways. No matter who you are, we're certain you can rock it too!
1. The Uber Girl. Extremely girly looks, when overdone, can look more costume-y than fashion forward. It's always ideal to mix in another element to tone down the ultra feminine appearance of this look. A leather skirt, then, is a natural additional element for this look. The texture and badass vibe of a leather skirt makes for just the juxtaposition it needs.
2. The Sports Chic Girl. The sports chic trend is still going strong, and a sporty top loves a leather bottom. The leather material doesn't clash in fact, its natural wet look does have an element of sporty to it, so long as you don't actually try to do pushups in it. But then this little skirt mixes things up at the same time, giving an element of Alexander Wang-esque street cred to the look without even breaking a sweat.
3. The Chic Girl. Worn with some opaque tights, colorful heels, and trendy top, the leather skirt acts like any other black skirt but with just a tiny added element of surprise. The opaque tights and colored heels take some attention off of the skirt by commanding their own.
4. The Working Girl. I realize you may have qualms with the idea of wearing a leather skirt to work, but try and forget that eBay story above and it won't seem quite so off the wall. The key is to pair it with normal professional attire, and just make sure it isn't too short. A pair of opaque tights will help give your legs some coverage, or simply go for a midi skirt to stay comfortable and work appropriate. Another good trick to play down the leather skirt is to keep your top untucked and allow it to fall over the skirt.
5. The Simple Chic Girl. Let the skirt do all the talking and pair it with a simple blouse and perhaps a bold necklace. To keep it from going too grungy, girly, or what have you, nude accessories are a sure shot way to keep the look for becoming overwhelmingly anything. Rounded shades as opposed to angular ones keep the look friendly and not unnecessarily intimidating.
It's freezing, and you feel like it's almost impossible to be stylish when all you want is to layer up in every item in your closet, at once. While there's a chance that your mish-mash layering may end up looking genius, there's also a big chance that it may look a little ridiculous. We're here to help. "But can't I just wear my Uggs and puffy coat and be done?" After you're done reading this, you'll find there's really no excuse for that.
Here's a list of style elements that will up your chic ante in a big way:
Scarf Overload The easy way to make almost any outfit more chic this season: loud scarves. Plaid, vibrant, neutral, printed; throw on the biggest scarf (or scarves) you can find, and wear it loud and proud. -- Wear it with boyfriend jeans and a biker jacket like FashionLandscape.
The Pink Coat The hue trend that's been going strong all season long, pink coats are surprisingly everyday. They look stellar with everything from printed skater skirts to tomboy minimal outfits. -- Style a pale pink coat with all white for a pastel-pretty look like CindyKarmoko.
Vivid Faux Fur Dyed in deep vibrant greens, blues and reds, boxy faux fur coats up the chic factor x 10. Wear it with leather pants and minimal accessories. -- Style a dark green faux fur coat with all black leather like TheHautePursuit.
Leather Sweatpants The trend that is surprisingly easy to style (Read all about it here), the leather sweatpant can be worn to the office and on a night out on the town.
All Grey, All Day The go-to hue to wear monochromatically this season, all grey two-pieces and layered looks are subtle and impossible to mess up if styled minimally.
White Elements
White is very bold in winter; it's not the hue of choice for many people in the cold months, so it's an easy way to stand out without looking like you're trying. Plus, it adds a 'so fresh and so clean, clean' flavor to even the grungiest looks.
Fisherman's Knit
Classic fisherman's sweaters are casual-chic and cozy-to-the-max. -- Dress it up with beige pairings like Oteea.
Bold Hue Mix
Bright yellows mixed with brick reds, royal blues mixed with mint greens, purple on fuchsia; liven up a cold and dreary day with bold color combos, head to toe. -- - Have fun with color this winter like Evilish Queeny.
' Sleeved Coats
Don't you just hate when you put the perfect outfit together, only to have to throw on a coat that may hide your outfit masterpiece all day? The answer to this cold weather dilemma is shorter coat sleeves. The mod ' sleeve coat is not only style, but it allows everyone to at least get a peek at your #OOTD.
Tomboy Minimal
A gray sweatshirt, long camel coat, jeans and wide brim hat; when in doubt, wear this combo this season. The clean lines and minimalism can never look cheap and is perfect for day trips.
The first collection from Topshop's AW 2010 is here. It's called 'Into the Wild'. This Autumn/Fall, we're seeing more masculine and feminine pieces put together in a very artistic kind of way just like in the first photo. Topshop mixes the dainty boho chic dress paired with a tough leather vest and some lace up boots. Plus, pointy boots are making a comeback!
On the second photo, you'll see a sporty yet frilly outfit consisting of sweaters, shorts, leggings and a lacy cardigan worn inside the sweater for a dramatic frilly skirt-like effect! And to top off that look, they add in socks and cuff boots.
And lastly, the third photo shows a mesh maxi dress which I am planning to make a post on. It's been popular at red carpet events these days because it has that look of a maxi dress but the sexy look of a short dress all in one. And to make the look more fierce, add in lace-boots to start rockin' it out!
Before we get into the topic of today's post, we just want to introduce you to our new weekly Chictopia EIU column. 'Chic of the Week' will be highlighting an important or interesting designer, fashion insider, editorial, or style every week; the articles will cover both the histories of these fashion icons as well as their relevance to you, the Chictopian EIU reader! Now, on to the article!
While we aren't people to hate on history, we think that the American Revolutionists didn't completely process out what to bring over and leave behind when separating from the British empire. For one, we lost their completely amazingly unique sense of style! Granted our weather ranges from blazing heat to snowy winters, so the eternal Mac coat probably isn't the best way to go about it but that's beside the point. English fashion has definitely made for some iconic styles; both varied and classic, they truly do their country proud. EIU brings you the most Chic of the Week, British Style.
On The Cover:
The basic connector of all facets of British fashion, Kate Moss, graces the main image of our first Chic of the Week article with Annabelle Neilson, fellow McQueen muse. Her contributions to British fashion and the industry as a whole, most definitely defines the relaxed-cool edge that the English bring to everything they do. Nothing is taken too seriously and a dose of fun is always added to everything, even the most couture of gowns.
? More Kate Moss Style
? Photograph of Kate Moss & Annabelle Neilson by Solve Sundsbo for Harper's Bazaar May 2011
Fashion Monarchy 
Undoubtedly famous for their avant garde edge, England is home to some of the most stylishly daring people to ever exist in fashion. British style has a penchant for fantastical hats and bold, bright colors; here are some of those super style icons and designers that definitely embrace the adventurous side of the British isles. Photograph of Daphne Guinness by Solve Sundsbo for Harper's Bazaar May 2011.
? Alexander McQueen The mixture of romance and macabre was a staple of McQueen style and definitely was evocative of the English sense of pretty versus punk. While Lee's life is over, the impact and importance of his design house to British fashion will never die.
? Philip Treacy Hat designer, Philip Treacy, is world renowned for his transformative fantasies for designers such as, Alexander McQueen, Chanel, and Valentino.
? Daphne Guiness Friend and muse of Alexander McQueen, Guinness is an artist and heir who is one of the most famous patrons of fashion. Her Cruella-striped hair, opulent everyday-couture, and heel-less mary janes are covetable and inspirational.
? Isabella Blow Muse to Philip Treacy, Blow was the pinnacle of British-headwear-love. Her hats were the stuff of legends and her visionary style definitely did not disappoint. While her life ended in tragedy, her legacy lives.
? Gareth Pugh Prince of the Goths and British fashion whirlwind, Gareth Pugh, mixes darkness, romance, geometry, and English iconography. With a love for theatrical shapes and styles, Pugh's gothic starting point doesn't stop at punk but goes all the way to royalty.
Only Anarchists Are Pretty
British punk fashion, most notably headed by Vivenne Westwood, obviously influences many facets of English style and the worldwide fashion industry. The popularity of Dr. Martens, leather, Scottish plaids, and bleached jeans in the Chictopia Style gallery seem to stem from this very look. While the most obvious of punk references come to mind first, the British sense of deconstruction and punk goes deeper. Using political motivations for fashion inspiration, British punk can go rock and roll or rockin' romantic. Photo of Vivenne Westwood by Tim Walker
? Vivienne Westwood Fashion political activism at it's finest, Vivienne Westwood's manifesto of do-it-yourself, adventurous fashion is inspirational and useful in our everyday lives. Be fearless and be strong in your sense of style.
? Susanna Lau of StyleBubble Momma of the fashion blogger, Susie Bubble completely encompasses, supports, and loves British Fashion. She takes risks with bold color, creative layering, and quirky accessories.
? Pelayo Diaz of KateLovesMe.net The bi-lingual blog of fashion design student Pelayo Diaz is one of endless inspiration. His mixture of British punk classics, crisp-clean basics, and androgynous avant garde pieces speak to so much of the 'London look.'
? Skinheads The style of a British Skinhead starts with of course, the close-shaven hairstyle, but it doesn't stop there. The range from punk and hardcore influences to 60s mod create a unique look that is definitely not weak. Dancing on the fine line between loving and not caring about fashion, the effortless feeling of this look is it's biggest appeal.
Basically Brit
The classicism and tradition of British fashion ranges from the wardrobe staple of khaki trench coat to the prim and proper matching suit. With clean lines and messy styling, the aesthetic of British fashion is a unique one. Not overtly grungy or slick like New York, not glossy and sensual like Milan, and not simplified like Parisian effortlessness or as traditionally couture as French design houses, English style is easygoing, classic, demure, and playful. Photograph of Emma Watson for Burberry
? Margaret Howell Fashion designer, Margaret Howell, once said that she designs ''clothes that are meant to be worn in the real world, where good design is about living with thoughtful style.' Her classic sensibility reflects in the everyday casual look of British style.
? Burberry While always reinventing itself for the exuberance and tough attitude of today's young London, Burberry will always be famous for its trench coat and classic, chic, natural beauty sense of style.
? Victoria Beckham The former popstar and current major fashion star's collections evoke the sleekness and modernity of British style.
? Queen Elizabeth II Okay so this is sort of here for humor, but in all seriousness, who is more fitting to represent the style of England than the Queen of the country? Her bold color choices and love for hats is definitely evocative of her people's fashion.
The Kids Are Alright
The modern British teen or young adult takes cues from all of these styles and mixes in a dose of messy looseness, showing that even though they look amazing they definitely weren't trying too hard to get there. It's natural and in their blood to be that chic! These girls and guys are not afraid to look like a little kid (schoolboys and girls are a definite inspiration!) or look too granny either (the Queen is on this list, you know). Their rockstar hair and charming wit can get them anywhere. Photo of Alexa Chung for Elle
? Alexa Chung Do we even need to introduce her? Alexa is probably the most important import from across the pond in fashion right now, especially as an inspiration to the younger set of British teen fashion lovers.
? Peter Jensen This fashion designer's look is 60s-inspired, preppy (but not pretentious, minimal, colorful, and above all, totally British. Check out his website for more inspiration on how to get this school-kid style.
? Mulberry For luxurious English fashion, Mulberry is the go to brand. Their chic and proper style evokes both the classicism of British sophistication and youthfulness of little girl inspiration.
? Topshop Topshop is basically the 'Forever21' of the UK. The British mecca of affordable fashion has collaborations with Christopher Kane and Kate Moss under its belt and their eclectic style can be seen on Alexa Chung and basically every other British young adult.
That's all we have for this week's 'Chic of the Week.' We hope you enjoyed it and look forward to next week's Designer spotlight.
The Tibi Fall/Winter 2012 collection shown during Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week was menswear inspired with minimalism, taking away from some of the key menswear Fall trends seen earlier during the month. Tibi's designer Amy Smilovic has said 'I always think a woman should dress in contradictions ' youthful and sophisticated, masculine and feminine, bold and muted colors.' Inspired by the 90's and the era of The Beatles, the Tibi Fall/Winter 2012 definitely got smart with masculine and structured pieces, girlish prints, bold monochromatic looks that were all understated and effortlessly chic.
MENSWEAR INSPIRED
Cropped suits were the first looks to go down the runway, preparing the show go-ers for the collection's slouchy trousers, knee length shorts, and tailored skirts. Wool coats were perfectly oversized while the mod and preppy turtlenecks were reminiscent of C'line's Fall 2011 white turtleneck trend. It's possible that we may all forget about the dress next winter and be wearing layers of turtlenecks under coats with a pair of trousers instead. Amen to menswear!
MONOCHROMATIC CHIC
While most of the pieces seen throughout the collection were black and cream, there were some outstanding monochromatic outfits in metallic, leather and unexpected thick fabrics. A glittery bold cobalt blue look went down the runway. Favorites included the emerald green glitter trousers and structured top and the all cream monochromatic pencil skirt and sweater combination.
FEMININE PRINTS
So glad to see something other than floral print in a womenswear collection. While undeniably a menswear inspired collection, designer Smilovic made sure to add femininity through the collection's set of girlish prints' school girl tartan plaid trousers, a geometric print, and a Miu Miu-esque bird print on blouses and skirts stood out amongst the simple and minimalistic collection. Favorites included a plaid pant suit underneath an oversized black coat.
NOTABLES
Model Lindsey Wixson walked the show and Olivia Palermo sat front row.